src/js/text/5_seagrass.md, before:

## Forests in the sea

When discussing terrestrial carbon sinks most people would think of forests with trees and shrubs. For many people in Ireland (and other parts of the UK such as the Fens in eastern England) another important carbon sink they will be familiar with is peatland. 

[Peatland](https://peatlands.org/peatlands/what-are-peatlands/) is characterised by its
waterlogged ecosystem and is a type of wetland.

 > ... peatlands are carbon rich ecosystems that store and sequester more carbon than any other type of terrestrial ecosystem

Please note, the peatland displayed on the map is both [old data (1980s)](https://www.opendatani.gov.uk/dataset/priorityhabitats_peatland) and has been simplified with the excellent [mapshaper](https://mapshaper.org/) to help reduce the size of the data to make the map a little more responsive (although you may have to use the keyboard to move about). A more up to date approach might be to use the [Peatland Monitoring from Space](https://storymaps.arcgis.com/stories/68ac541504fc4714b371b1a33e540c95) data.

Commit message:

dark mode save and seagrass

src/js/text/5_seagrass.md, after:

## Forests in the sea

For a completely different notion of forest, we can look beneath the waves. Seagrasses are the [only flowering plant able to live in seawater](https://www.wildlifetrusts.org/habitats/marine/seagrass#:~:text=Seagrasses%20are%20the%20only%20flowering,terrestrial%20grassland%20%E2%80%93%20an%20underwater%20meadow.&text=It%20has%20been%20calculated%20that,the%20ocean's%20total%20carbon%20absorption.). Seagrass forms *meadows* typically in shallower waters just of the coast. According to [Project Seagrass](https://www.projectseagrass.org/why-seagrass/) and [other sources](https://www.wildlifetrusts.org/natural-solutions-climate-change/seagrass):

> Seagrasses occupy 0.1% of the seafloor, yet are responsible for 11% of the organic carbon buried in the ocean.

The data plotted from [OpenDataNI](https://www.opendatani.gov.uk/dataset/subtidal-and-intertidal-seagrass-beds) shows subtidal and intertidal seagrass beds in [Strangford Lough](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Strangford_Lough) (a Marine Conservation Zone and the British Isles' largest inlet).

During the writing of this section, the [Environment Agency](https://catchmentbasedapproach.org/learn/seagrass-restoration-handbook/) released a handbook for the restoration of seagrass. Strangford Lough gets a special, small mention:

> Patches of seagrass may also occur within pebble and rubble environments (e.g. Strangford Lough in Northern Ireland), near other sensitive sedimentary habitats such as oyster reefs, maerl beds and mussel beds, and within other coastal habitats such as saltmarsh and mudflats.

Unfortunately, [Green et al.](https://www.frontiersin.org/articles/10.3389/fpls.2021.629962/full) have brought to light just how catastrophically the seagrass loss in the UK has been. 

> ... at least 44% of United Kingdom’s seagrasses have been lost since 1936, 39% since the 1980’s. However, losses over longer time spans may be as high as 92%.

The good folk at Project Seagrass are working hard to raise awareness for the disappearing meadows. Recently, they announced [their first Seagrass nursery](https://www.projectseagrass.org/projects/seagrass-nursery-news-vol-1/).
